Added Animation, Tilemaps, and many more (#24)
twolivesleft/Codea4-Docs: docs/source/api/animation.rst

Reviewer: In general, this new file seems to be missing all helptext.

animation
=========

> Api for creating animation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API for creating animation
```

> **It Contains**

Reviewer: This doesn't feel standard with our existing documentation files. Maybe **Content**. Worth seeing if we have other similar examples in the documentation.

>     - ``animation`` - infomation on a animation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - ``animation`` - information on a animation
```

>     - ``animation.track`` - infomation on how animation tracks work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - ``animation.track`` - information on how animation tracks work
```

>     - ``animation.key`` - infomation on how animation key frames work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - ``animation.key`` - information on how animation key frames work
```

>     - ``animation.easing`` - infomation on how animation easing work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - ``animation.easing`` - information on how animation easing work
```

Animation
#########

.. lua:class:: animation

    .. code-block:: lua

>         :caption: How to create a animation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        :caption: How to create an animation
```

        local ball = { x = 0, y = 3, col = color.red }

        newAnimation = animation(ball)

        newTrack = newAnimation.col -- creates a animation track using the property "col"

>         newTrack2 = newAnimation:property("y") -- another way to creates a animation track using the property "y"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        newTrack2 = newAnimation:property("y") -- another way to create an animation track using the property "y"
```

        newAnimation:play()

        -- every frame
        newAnimation:update()

    .. lua:method:: constructor (target)

        The constructor of the animation class

        :param target: The target table or userdata of the animation 
        :type target: table or userdata

        :return: A new animation
        :rtype: animation
    
    .. lua:attribute:: id: number

>         Can get and set an id for an animation

Reviewer: "Can" formulation doesn't sound standard.

```suggestion
        Get or set the animation's identifier
```

    .. lua:attribute:: name: string

    .. lua:method:: property(propertyName)

        Adds a new track to the animation using that property. Type of the track is inferred.

>         :param propertyName: The string that direct to the proper target (property name)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        :param propertyName: The string that directs to the proper target (property name)
```

        :type propertyName: string
      
        :return: A new animation track
        :rtype: animation.track

        **Unique Property Names**

        * ``"call"`` - creates a function track
        * ``"sound"`` - creates a sound track

>         * ``"clip"`` - creates a animation clip track

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * ``"clip"`` - creates an animation clip track
```

    .. lua:method:: [index] (propertyName)

>         Same as function above. You can just index using the property name to add new track

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Adds a new track by passing the property name as index.
```

    .. lua:method:: removeTrack(trackObj)

>         Removes this track from a list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Removes this track
```

        :param trackObj: the track to be removed
        :type trackObj: animation.track

    .. lua:method:: update(timeDelta)

>         Updates the animation based on ``time.delta``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Updates the animation by ``time.delta``
```

        :param timeDelta: time.delta
        :type timeDelta: number

    .. lua:method:: play()

        Starts to play the animation

    .. lua:method:: pause()

        Pauses the animation
        

>     .. lua:method:: pause()

Reviewer: Remove this duplicate.

        Pauses the animation

    .. lua:method:: restart([shouldPlay = true])

        Restarts the animation from the beginning

        :param shouldPlay: Whether the animation should start playing
        :type shouldPlay: boolean

    .. lua:attribute:: playing: boolean

        Checks if the animation is playing

    .. lua:attribute:: tracks: table<animation.track>

>         Allow one to get the tracks of the animation

Reviewer: Returns the list of tracks for this animation

    .. lua:attribute:: duration: number

        Gets the duration of an animation

    .. lua:attribute:: time: number

        Gets/Sets the time elapsed through the animation

    .. lua:attribute:: loopAmount: integer

>         Sets the amount of times the animation loop. Set to 0 for an infinite loop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Sets the amount of times the animation loops. Set to 0 for an infinite loop.
```

    .. lua:attribute:: onComplete: function

>         Set the function that is called when animation is completed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Set a function to call when the animation is complete.
```

    .. lua:method:: group(animation1, ... , animationX)

>         Groups multiple animations into one animaiton so they can be played synchronously using the same time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Groups multiple animations into one animations so they can be played synchronously using the same time. 
```

        Each animation gets their own track (``type: animationClip``).

>         At the front of the track (0 second), an animation clip key frame is place with each animation as a animation clip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        At the front of the track (0 second), an animation clip key frame is placed with each animation as an animation clip.
```

>         `Note that duration of the grouped animation is the length of the longest animation`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        `Note that the duration of the grouped animation is the length of the longest animation.`
```

        :param animation1: A single animation to be added to the group
        :type animation1: animation

        :return: A new animation able to play all the animations synchronously
        :rtype: animation

    .. lua:method:: sequence(animation1, ... , animationX)

>         Groups multiple animations into a one animaiton so they can be played in a sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Groups multiple animations into a single animation so they can be played sequentially.
```

>         Each animation is place in a singlar track one after another (``type: animationClip``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Each animation is placed in a singlar track one after another (``type: animationClip``).
```

>         `Note that duration of the sequenced animation is the sum of all the animations' duration`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        `Note that the duration of the sequenced animation is the sum of all the animations' duration.`
```

        :param animation1: A single animation to be added to the sequence
        :type animation1: animation

        :return: A new animation able to play all the animations sequentially
        :rtype: animation

Animation Track
###############

.. lua:class:: animation.track

    .. code-block:: lua

>         :caption: How to create a animation.track

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        :caption: How to create an animation.track
```

        local ball = { x = 0, y = 3, col = color.red, image = asset.ball1 }

        ballColorAnimation = animation(ball)

>         -- animate ball color

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        -- Animate the ball's color
```

        colorTrack = ballColorAnimation.col
        
        -- Set the key frames of the ball
        colorTrack
            :key(0.0) -- because the value was not inputted the first key's value is set to color.red because that is the current value of "col"
            :key(1.0, color.blue, tween.hold)
            :key(2.0, color.green)
        
        

>         firstKey = colorTrack:keyAtIndex(1) -- get the key at the first index

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        firstKey = colorTrack:keyAtIndex(1) -- get the first key
```

        firstKey.value = color.white
        colorTrack:keyAtTime(1.0).value = color.black -- change the key value at time 1.0 from blue to magenta 
        colorTrack[2.0].value = color.magenta -- another way to get time

        ballSpriteAnimation = animation(ball)

        -- animate ball sprite with frames
        spriteTrack = ballAnimation:property("image") -- another way to create a track for the "image" property

>         spriteTrack:frames({asset.ball1, asset.ball2, asset.ball3}, { loop = 4, fps = 6 }) -- add frames to track make them loop 4 time at 6 fps 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        spriteTrack:frames({asset.ball1, asset.ball2, asset.ball3}, { loop = 4, fps = 6 }) -- add frames to the track and make it loop 4 times at 6 fps 
```

>         groupAnimation = animaiton.bundle(ballColorAnimation, ballSpriteAnimation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        groupAnimation = animation.bundle(ballColorAnimation, ballSpriteAnimation)
```

>         spriteAnimationTrack = groupAnimation.tracks[2] -- get the second track

Reviewer: Can you make sure to test the latest code? Since it was written animaiton instead of animation, I suspect the code was not working?

        secondTrackKey = spriteAnimationTrack:keyAtIndex(1)

>         local theDuration = secondTrackKey.duration -- get first keyframe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        local theDuration = secondTrackKey.duration -- get first key frame
```

Reviewer: You used key frame in other places. We should standardize to either "keyframe" or "key frame", but not both.

>         secondTrackKey.duration = theDuration * 2 -- make sprite animation loop 2 times

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        secondTrackKey.duration = theDuration * 2 -- make the sprite animation loop 2 times
```

        groupAnimation:play()

        -- every frame
        groupAnimation:update()
        
    .. lua:attribute:: type: trackType

>         What type of track this track is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Returns this track's type.
```

            * ``animation.track.boolean`` - boolean track
            * ``animation.track.number`` - number track
            * ``animation.track.vec2`` - vec2 track
            * ``animation.track.vec3`` - vec3 track
            * ``animation.track.vec4`` - vec4 track
            * ``animation.track.color`` - color track
            * ``animation.track.quat`` - quat track
            * ``animation.track.sprite`` - sprite track
            * ``animation.track.sound`` - sound track

>             * ``animation.track.function`` - function track: calls a function at a the time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            * ``animation.track.function`` - function call track
```

>             * ``animation.track.animationClip`` - animationClip track: plays other animations as a key frame

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            * ``animation.track.animationClip`` - animationClip track: plays another animation
```

    .. lua:attribute:: target: table/userdata
            
        The table/userdata that contains that animated property

    .. lua:attribute:: property: string

>         The string that direct to the proper target (property name)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The string that directs to the proper target (property name)
```

    .. lua:attribute:: duration: number

        The duration of the track which is the last key frame's time, in seconds, plus its duration

    .. lua:attribute:: fps: integer

>         The frames that are placed pre second

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The speed of the animation in frames per second.
```

Reviewer: @Lioncub901 You don't see to have addressed this one.

    .. lua:attribute:: timeDelta: number

>         Gap of time between each frame placed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Gap of time between each frame played.
```

    .. lua:method:: frames(theFrames[, frameProperties])

>         A way to quickly get/set the keyframes for a sprite track (``type = animation.track.sprite``). It uses the timeDelta as a way to space out the sprites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        A way to quickly get/set the keyframes for a sprite track (``type = animation.track.sprite``). It uses the timeDelta as a way to space out the sprites.
```

>         :param theFrames: a table of frames to represent the frames of an the sprite animation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        :param theFrames: a table of frames to represent the frames of the sprite animation
```

        :type theFrames: table<sprite>

        :param frameProperties: a table of properties of how the frames should behave
        :type frameProperties: table

>             * ``"delta"`` - sets the space of time each frame should be placed. For example: 0.1 (this would space the frames but every 0.1 seconds)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            * ``"delta"`` - sets the space of time each frame should be played. For example: 0.1 (this would space the frames every 0.1 seconds)
```

            * ``"fps"`` - another way of doing delta but sets the fps of the sprites

>             * ``"loop"`` - amount of times the sprites should loop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            * ``"loop"`` - number of times the sprites should loop
```

    .. lua:method:: adjustFrames()

>         If the timeDelta/fps gets changed this method will adjust all the frames to fit the new timeDelta/fps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Adjust the frames to fit the new timeDelta/fps.
```

    .. lua:attribute:: count: integer

>         The amount of keyframes in a track

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The number of key frames in a track.
```

Reviewer: Again, let's standardize between "keyframe" or "key frames". I prefer "keyframe" but both are valid. (@simsaens any preference?)

Reviewer: @Lioncub901 Please search and replace any "key frame" to "keyframe".

    .. lua:method:: key(time[, value, properties])

>         This is the function to add a keyframe to the track. (Does Chaining)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Add a key frame to the track. (supports chaining)
```

        :param time: The time of the key frame
        :type time: number

>         :param value: The value of the key frame. If ``trackType = animation.track.vec2`` then value should be a ``vec2``. Every type follow this rule. If there is no value then set to current value of ``target[property]``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        :param value: The value of the key frame. If ``trackType = animation.track.vec2`` then value should be a ``vec2``. Every type follows this rule. If there is no value then set to current value of ``target[property]``
```

        `If table:`

            * ``"ease"`` - Sets the ease type of the key frame (``type: tween enum``)
            * ``"strength"`` - Sets the strength of the easing (``type: number``)
            * ``"loop"`` - Sets the amount of previous keys to be looped (``type: integer``)

        `If table but type of track is sound or animation clip`

            * ``"duration"`` - Sets the duration of the key frame (``type: number``)
            * ``"start"`` - Sets the start time of the key frame (``type: number``)

    .. lua:method:: keyAtIndex(keyIndex)

        Returns the key frame at this index

        :param keyIndex: The index of the keyframe in the track keyframe list
        :type keyIndex: integer

        :return: Key at that index
        :rtype: animation.key

    .. lua:method:: keyAtTime(time)

        Returns the key frame at this time

        :param time: The time of the key frame
        :type time: number

        :return: Key at that time
        :rtype: animation.key

    .. lua:method:: [index] (time)

        Does the same thing as ``keyAtTime``

    .. lua:method:: custom ([function])

>         This allows this track to use a custom function instead the property to set the target

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        This allows this track to use a custom function instead of a property to set the target
```

        :param function: Sets the custom function if no input then use default behavior
        :type function: function

        .. code-block:: lua
            :caption: How to use custom

            ani:target(boyEntity)
            trac = ani.rz -- creates a track of the "rz" (rotation on z axis).
                :key(0.0, nil)
                :key(1.0, 720.0)
            
            trac:custom(function(value) -- because setting "rz" is unstable it is safer to set the rotation variable directly so we use a custom function
                boy.rotation = quat.eulerAngles(0, 0, value)
            end)

    .. lua:attribute:: openBeginning: boolean

>         This is a variable that sets the 0 second key frame to be open meaning that the track will add a key frame at 0 second time and will set the value to the current property value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        This is a variable that sets the 0 second key frame to be open. When true, the track will add a key frame at 0 second time and set the value to the current property value.
```

>         This can be used to smoothly go from game play to a cut scene without an abrupt cut.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        This can be used to smoothly go from gameplay to a cut scene without an abrupt cut.
```

    .. lua:attribute:: openEasing: animation.easing

        This is the easing of the open key frame

Animation Key
#############

.. lua:class:: animation.key

    .. lua:attribute:: time: number

        Changes the time of the keyframe

        `Note: This method might change the key frames index in the list`

    .. lua:attribute:: value: number

        Changes the value of the keyframe

    .. lua:attribute:: duration: number

        Changes the duration of the keyframe for sound and animation clip key frames

    .. lua:attribute:: startTime: number

        Changes the start time (offset) of sound and animation clip

    .. lua:attribute:: originalDuration: number

        Gets the original duration of sound or animation clip

    .. lua:method:: restoreDuration()

>         Resets the duration of this key frame (sound or animation clip) to it original duration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Resets the duration of this key frame (sound or animation clip) to its original duration
```

    .. lua:method:: delete()

        Deletes this key frame from its parent track list
    
    .. lua:attribute:: valid: boolean

        Checks if the keyframe is still valid

    .. lua:attribute:: easing: animation.easing

        Gets the easing of this key

Animation Easing
################

.. lua:class:: animation.easing

    .. lua:attribute:: type: tween easing enum

        Changes the type of easing of the key frame

    .. lua:attribute:: strength: number

        Changes the strength of the easing

    .. lua:attribute:: loopAmount: integer

>         Changes amount of previous frames that are looped 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Changes the amount of previous frames to loop 
```

        .. helptext:: adds a new track to the animation

    .. lua:method:: removeTrack(trackObj)

        Removes this track

        :param trackObj: the track to be removed
        :type trackObj: animation.track

        .. helptext:: removes track

    .. lua:method:: update(timeDelta)

        Updates the animation by ``time.delta``

        :param timeDelta: time.delta
        :type timeDelta: number

        .. helptext:: updates the animation

    .. lua:method:: play()

        Starts to play the animation

        .. helptext:: plays the animation

    .. lua:method:: pause()

        Pauses the animation

        .. helptext:: pauses the animation

    .. lua:method:: restart([shouldPlay = true])

        Restarts the animation

        :param shouldPlay: Whether the animation should start playing
        :type shouldPlay: boolean

        .. helptext:: restarts the animation

    .. lua:attribute:: playing: boolean

        Checks if the animation is playing

        .. helptext:: checks if the animation is playing

    .. lua:attribute:: tracks: table<animation.track>

        Gets the tracks of the animation

>         .. helptext:: checks if the animation is playing

Reviewer: Wrong helptext.
